# MCalcPro
The Mortgage-Calculator Pro app much like it's name suggests provides the user with a detailed analysis of their estimated mortgage variables determined by the user: Principle, Amortization and Interest.
# UI and Behaviour
The visible UI consists of five widgets: three text boxes, the "Analyze" button, and a display box underneath for the analysis. Once valid variables have been entered for the Principle. Amortizaiton period and Interest rate the app will anaylze these numbers, determine and display the monthly mortgage payment, a pre determined text message will follow explaining that by following this payment for the length of the ammortization period, what the remaining balance will be on the nth year. The year over year balance will be displayed underneath this for the user until year five and from then the five year balance until year 20.
# Design
Full API delegation of five different APIs written by Professor Hamzeh Roumani, TheMPro API, The Toast API, The IME API, The TTS API, and The Accelerometer API. These APIs allow us to create an instance with the user supplied information with methods to compute all the figures needed to compose the required analysis. As well as validate the data provided and display error messages if needed. The final two APIs TTS and Accelerometer provided added functionality in the form of text to speech, and the ability to monitor the acceleration sensor on the device. Once the analysis is complete the device will pass the string through to the TTS API which will invoke a method to speak it to the user. If the device is accelerated past a certain threshold this will clear all fields.
